Hello, YouTube.
Hello, Carol, Tina, Juan, Simon.
Awesome to have you here.
Hi there.
Hey, it's good to be here.
Hey, Michael and everyone.
Good to be here.
Yeah, it's really good to be here with you all.
And this is going to be a bit of a different episode and live stream for those who are
watching the very popular live stream at the moment.
There's been a, I don't know if you all have heard, but there's a bit of a turmoil over
at Twitter.
And I'm going to be talking about the fact that Twitter is a big part of the world.
It's really good to be here with you all.
And this is going to be a bit of a different episode
and live stream for those who are watching the very
popular live stream at the moment.
There's been a--
I don't know if you all have heard,
but there's a bit of a turmoil over at Twitter.
And I think you could hardly hide under a rock and see that.
Even the people who are living under a rock, like, oh, yeah,
I heard about the Twitter thing.
Because every news channel is just
like they bring on the expert that talks about interviews
and various things that are going on.
And I wanna kind of start this episode
just with a comment about Twitter real quick
before we talk about the,
maybe the alternative or destination or parallel universe.
Twitter has been a really important community for me.
And I don't wanna,
if I say anything negative about what's happening at Twitter,
I don't want people who have been really great pieces of my community, members of my community,
to feel like that's in any way directed to them.
It's been a really positive experience to be with so many people over there.
And it's only with concern and worry that I would lose that community that maybe something
might happen to Twitter.
Either it gets wrecked and it's a place that people don't like, or advertisers flee and
it goes out of business, or who knows what the future holds.
But that's sort of what got me interested in alternatives.
And Mastodon turned out to be a pretty interesting alternative.
So maybe we could kick this off with just a really brief introduction and your perspective
on that.
Carol, we'll go down the video list here.
Yeah.
Hello, everybody.
I'm Carol Willing.
I'm a longtime contributor in the Python and Jupyter ecosystems.
Now I'm a Dean of Engineering at Notable, which is a SaaS-based notebook platform.
Yeah, I've been a long-time user of Twitter and it's been great for community stuff, but
I am concerned about the future, so I'm interested in hearing what everybody else has to say as well.
Yeah, well, welcome, Carol. Gina?
Thank you.
Yeah, hi, my name is Gina Häuske. I'm a full-time open source maintainer of my own project Octoprint.
now for almost 10 years. And I think my Twitter account was created in April 2009.
And my Mastodon account was created in January 2020. So I've been a long term,
long time Twitter user, it was my go to social network after Google Plus went down. And I've met
a lot of amazing people on there. And I really hate to see this, this community to, yeah,
maybe go down now or something, I don't know.
But in any case, that was also the reason
why I jumped ship quite early and yeah, not jump ship,
but just try to establish a new home, a new ground base
and gather my friends around me there again, so to speak.
- Yeah, yeah.
So, you know, my feeling is sort of,
my terminology I'm trying to use right now
is sort of mass it on first,
but not I'm deleting my Twitter account
and I'm out of there.
That's the way I'm thinking of it.
- Exactly, I'm absolutely not deleting it,
but I'm now, I switched the cross-poster direction
and also the cross-poster, yeah,
I switched it from opt-in to opt-out,
from opt-out to opt-in, so yeah.
- Yeah, excellent. Juan, hello.
- Well, so hello everyone, my name is Juan Luis.
I'm from Spain and since the past two years
been working as an advocate, so the social media aspect has been really important also
for my work, even though I've had a long-term love-hate relationship with Twitter in particular.
So I don't remember when I first signed up because I have removed my account and then
signed up again at least two or three times, but I very vividly remember lots of political
things happening and following elections and important stuff happening not only in my country
but everywhere in the world through Twitter and getting the news from there. So for me it's
it's been a very important part of who I am as a member of the society and as a person concerned
about the problems of the world of course and I'm also very sad to see it go that way. I have a
story of working in the space industry as well, so I know how the new boss of Twitter operates,
perhaps better than other people. But at the same time, I'm very hopeful for the future of not only
Masterton, but the whole Fediverse, because in a way it seems like the very first time that we're
trying this idea for a massive audience,
not just a seemingly small number of people
very concerned with free and libre software and so on.
But we are experimenting with how this looks like
for many more users than we could imagine two weeks ago,
and probably much larger audiences that we can moderate as well.
Yeah, in two weeks from now, it's going to be crazy different than now as well.
There's so much action that people are going to find out, I think.
Yeah, so you're in an interesting situation where as your job as an advocate,
dev advocate, you've got to be on social media. You don't get to choose.
And so you've got to go where people are and where the action is. So, yeah, welcome.
Yeah, it's a whole conversation, like whether advocates should be on social media or if it's
a requirement or not, but staying where the community is, is part of the job in a sense.
Yeah, and you've also been on Mastodon. You're one of the old-timers, the old guard as they say
over there. That's excellent.
Been like a year and a half, so I wouldn't consider myself an old-timer, but I've been
concern for about the Fediverse and alternative social media stuff for a very long time.
Well, yeah, awesome. I kept the how long I've been on the Fediverse on my fingers and days.
So, excellent. Simon?
So, hi, I'm Simon. Yeah, I'm a full-time open source developer in Half Moon Bay, California,
working on data sets, tools for data journalists and others to share and publish data. But I
I've been on Twitter for 16 years, it turns out. I signed up in November 2006. I'm user number 12,497
because back then Twitter had incremental IDs for their users, so I can tell you exactly where I was.
And actually, I ran a startup built on top of the Twitter APIs for three years,
which was then acquired by Eventbrite and moved us out to California. So,
Twitter is responsible for a major piece of my career at this point.
And yeah, I ignored the Fediverse entirely for five years because I understood the usability
challenges around being decentralized and so forth. I'm like, you know what, Twitter works
fine and it's a public company. What could go wrong? It turns out what can go wrong is the
world's richest man can buy the company in a fit of narcissistic whimsy and everything falls apart.
So right now I'm trying to find the alternative to Twitter,
which cannot be bought by the world's richest man
or bought by anyone else.
And Mastodon appears to be in exactly the right state
and exactly the right point in its development
for this crazy moment in time right now.
- That's awesome how much of an influence
Twitter has had on you.
You know, I was staying there.
And like I said, I have this sort of,
I'm gonna kind of be Mastodon first.
I'm certainly not deleting my account.
So staying is, I guess I'm still in a sense staying,
but I was mostly focused there because my people were there.
But as over the last week or so,
what I've come to realize is, wow,
Mastodon is way more in tune with open source,
free software, unaffiliated tech organizations
than any of the corporate big tech sites are
in a very interesting way.
- Yeah, the growth of Mastodon in the past week
has just been astonishing.
Like it's hockey sticking and it's all people I like.
You know, I'm finding people on Mastodon
who I didn't know who are great.
Look, the many, many, many of the people I care about
on Twitter are making the migration over as well.
It just feels like it's, for my particular niche of nerds,
it seems to have hit exactly the right resonance,
which is really exciting.
And the thing I've always loved most about Twitter
is there are lots of subsets of Twitter.
There's wildlife conservation Twitter and science Twitter
and all of this.
And they haven't all come over, but the scientists
are there in bulk.
The academics have moved to Mastodon in bulk.
It does feel like Mastodon's not just
going to be the kind of nerds who can figure out Mastodon,
which I was worried.
I was worried it would be people on Mastodon
and nerds who want to talk about Mastodon.
And that's so not the case, which is thrilling to me.
Yes, that exactly was my concern as well.
It might be a small little niche set of very techie people
and that's great, but it seems I've had a bunch
of filmmakers and journalists and--
- Screenwriters are showing up, yeah.
- Yes, it's amazing, it's really, really great.
Let's see, a real quick question.
This one goes to Juan first, David, out in the audience.
So you weren't concerned with Twitter previously,
only when Elon took over or,
I guess it's more of a group question.
- Yeah, David said it was kind of directed to me,
but I will let others say their opinion.
Yeah, kind of what Simon said already.
I was also concerned about the idea of a whole entity,
a whole media site being up for being bought
by a single person, which might happen--
I don't know-- for Facebook.
it's already bought by a single person, right?
In a sense, but it might happen
to your favorite social network at any day.
And the fact that now the Fediverse is gaining traction
and it's distributed, puts some values to that.
But apart from that, like Twitter has in a sense
been a victim of its own success in the sense that
like the algorithm, the famous algorithm
that puts more famous tweets up front
or things that you might engage with and so forth.
In the end, it ends up favoring maybe things
that make you angry because the algorithm knows
that you're going to engage with that.
- Oh, they really responded well to this one here
where what about Nazis is so popular, let's share that.
- Or Python versus Ruby, I don't know,
like all sorts of things making you angry.
but or maybe just silly memes that happen to be fun to watch,
but I don't know, like making you lose some neurons.
So I think my quality of life improved a lot
when I switched to the chronological timeline,
so when I disabled the algorithm.
But I had to put lots of measures,
like a browser extension that hides the trending topics
and blocking people like there's no tomorrow.
I don't know, like I had to develop my own habits
to make Twitter sustainable for me.
And Elon Musk buying it was just the icing in the cake.
Yeah.
It pretty much went the same for me, I got to say.
So I started taking extended Twitter breaks,
especially over the weekends when the pandemic started,
and then even more so when the war started.
And just because of all this negativity that constantly
got flooded into your timeline, and I already
was on the chronological one,
and it still got flooded into there
because obviously people who weren't
on the chronological one got it via the algorithm,
then they, I was about to say boosted it,
but now they retweeted it.
And that way, then it ended up in mine
and I had to mute so many people.
I had to add so many filters to my experience
and all of that.
I mean, in the end, I got a very filtered
and very tame version of Twitter,
it was still way before that guy bought it. It was way before that already, just another
sink of my energy actually. And with Mastodon, I never so far have had, I've been very active
on there ever since the first, "Hey, I'm going to buy Twitter" thing brought, yeah, happened
I think April or so this year. And it was just like a completely utterly different kind of
experience. Like, I met a number of people that I would never have found on Twitter, who I now
interact with a lot because they are just genuinely interesting and do very, very amazing stuff. And
there are capybaras and squirrels in my timeline way more than there were before on Twitter. So I
enjoy that stuff and there is still the bad things and still the serious stuff and
still the news but they are tamed they are not amplified to a thousand and that is really
there's not an algorithm boosting it even more yeah yeah so i've got a different perspective here
um i'm i'm gonna say something controversial i love the algorithm the thing i miss most from
twitter on mastodon is i don't have the algorithm because the reason i love the algorithm is i
I realized that it gave me the freedom
to follow a lot of people.
I'm following four or 5,000 people on Twitter.
And the only way you can do that is you make sure
you don't even pretend you're gonna read everything.
And you trust that the algorithm will boost up a mixture
of interesting things so that you can.
And so whenever somebody says anything interesting
at all on Twitter, I'll follow them.
And then I'll hope that future things they say
that resonate will bubble up.
And for the most part, that worked really well for me.
But it really came down to the fact that I trusted
the sort of core concept of Twitter.
I trusted that there were enough people at Twitter
who understood why it works and what's important about it,
that even while they play with NFT avatars and sleeps
or whatever they call them, all of that kind of stuff,
that the fundamentals were solid.
And the reason, the thing that made me lose faith
was when Elon, a week in, fired half the company.
Like all of the people I know at Twitter
who understood what Twitter was, they're gone.
He's completely-- he's just gutted
that sort of institutional knowledge of what this thing is.
And then his first big change, the ludicrous selling verified
checkmarks for $8, exhibited a complete failure
to understand what this thing was and how this thing worked.
And at that point, I lost all faith.
I'm like, no, this thing I've trusted for 16 years
to keep on working in a way that is useful
and that means that I can follow my 4,000 people
in weird different spaces, that's not going to hold.
it's not gonna work anymore.
And that was the point at which I switched my energies
to Mastodon and found that most of the stuff
that I loved from Twitter was happening there
in a much more pure non-commercialized format.
Like the commercial models are super worth talking about.
But yeah, so my biggest Mastodon project that I plan
is I want to build myself an algorithmic timeline
that's just for me.
And it means that it essentially takes everything
from people I'm following and randomizes them a bit
and looks for things that I might not have seen recently
just tries to give me a little bit of that magic back again.
- I kind of like that a lot.
You're going to open source that, right?
- Oh yeah, I hope so.
- It's going to be a mess of SQL queries.
It'll be lovely.
- Yeah, yeah, I'm sure.
I'll run on SQLite.
It'll be amazing.
- Oh yeah.
- Yeah.
No, I have to say, I kind of took Simon's approach.
I didn't use any tools when I was using Twitter.
It was whatever came up in my feed,
it was the news of the day.
And what was great is,
I would see what Simon was up to
and somebody else's cool bird pictures and whatever was going on in science.
And, and so I had a very casual relationship with it, but it was something I looked at,
you know, a couple of times a day and, you know, really learned a lot from.
Now there was also the other side of Twitter, which is you get a community of people together
where there's some anonymity and from like a core Python development standpoint and things where
where there was controversy maybe within,
you know, technical decisions that the language was making.
Twitter could be a really yucky place,
yuckier than mailing lists and Slack and IRC.
Does anybody still use that?
Probably, you know, but all of the other channels
that we also follow.
And I guess, you know, what I was seeing
was more and more of my friends going to Mastodon
and the people that I respect and like their opinions on.
And I was like, you know, I've never been happy
with the moderation side of Twitter.
So let's see, let's see how this goes.
But you know, I'm like Michael,
really new, I can count on my two hands,
like how many days I've been part of MassDone,
but so far I'm super, super happy with it.
So, let's see where it goes.
- I'm glad to see you show up over there.
That was great.
- Cool.
This whole conversation is going to be part, sort of the culture of tech communities, but also part
technical as well. And I think understanding how Mastodon fits well with open source and those
types of communities has a bit to do with understanding how it's deployed, how it
connects together, how it works. Who wants to talk about what the Fediverse is and how do you create
an account? Like, why are there so many weird different places I can go create an account?
I'm like, what is this new world?
I say, not mastodon.com,
and I just go in and create my account,
and it's like the new Twitter.
- I mean, in a way, mastodon is a bit like email, right?
- Yes.
- Like you have an open, more or less well-defined protocol
that is actually a W3C standard
called ActivityPub and ActivityStreams.
And in email, we have SMTP and IMAP and stuff.
And you have servers on the internet
that speak that protocol.
Those are master.social, foster.org, chaos.social,
and anything that you want to set up on master host
and whatever.
And the thing now is that just the same way
that if you write an email from your Gmail account
to someone who has their email hosted at FastMail
or on their own domain,
You can also do that with Mastodon
because you can write a toot
and we call these toots and not tweets.
To someone, so I can toot to Mike.
Mike is on Fosstodon.
I am on chaos.social.
That works just fine
because there is a common protocol shared
that both servers speak.
There is even in the activity pub spec,
a concept of an inbox and an outbox.
So it is very email-like in that regard.
And that just works.
And that doesn't just work for a micro blogging service
like Twitter or in this case, Mastodon,
because when we talk about Mastodon,
we also have to talk about the Feddy Wars
and Mastodon is just a part of the Feddy Wars
because there is other stuff.
There is an Instagram alternative called Pixel Fed,
same thing, opens your software,
you can install on your server
and then put your pictures on there
and share them across to other Pixel Fed
or even to other Mastodon instances
because it's the same protocol.
There is stuff like a YouTube alternative called PeerTube,
same protocol, again, cross-compatible,
can talk to each other.
We have Bookworm that is a bit like Goodreads,
by the way, written in Python,
very interesting to look into the source
if you want to get an idea how to implement ActivityPub.
And yeah, there's a ton of other stuff too.
So currently Mastodon is very big in focus
because of this Twitter alternative thing.
But when you start looking into this whole Fetty Wurst
and this whole thing that powers Mastodon
and how Mastodon works, then you realize,
hey, there is a big, big world there
beyond just sending toots and talking about squirrels.
- And it's crazy how these different alternatives
can communicate together,
because have you seen when people share a tweet
that contains a screenshot of an Instagram post
that it's itself like a screenshot
of something they saw on TikTok.
So it turns out that you can communicate
through all these alternatives with the same protocol.
It feels surreal that you can, from Twitter, so to speak,
follow an Instagram account
and get their pictures on Twitter.
It's like nothing we've ever dreamed of,
and it's currently possible with the technology.
Of course, it has like quirks and whatnot,
But in a sense, it's like prohibiting world gardens
for good and just interacting with any sort of social media
with a unified protocol.
MARK MIRCHANDANI: Yeah, there's nobody
who controls whether you have a blog or not on the internet.
Not really.
So I want to throw some quick praise at Mastodon here,
where I think the fact that this works as well as it does
is a miracle.
It is absolutely phenomenal.
People have put--
Mastodon itself is six years old.
The activity pub standards are even older than that.
A huge number of incredibly hardworking,
incredibly smart people have sweated over this stuff
for years and years and years.
And I feel like we're getting one of those
overnight success moments right now
where overnight successes are always like
five years in the making.
Two weeks ago, we all started leaping onto this thing
and it hasn't sunk.
Like the fact that it's actually managing to scale up
with this amount of activity,
with a few glitches and some things
are a little bit slow occasionally.
No, I think this is an absolute miracle
of software engineering.
I could not be more impressed
by what these people have built for us,
this thing that we're diving on right now.
It's just, this is an incredibly difficult technical problem,
incredibly difficult social problem, the design problem,
like designing community software is extremely hard.
And they've done such a great job of this.
And so you see people sort of complaining
about little details and things are missing.
No, come on, like we all just got here
and I cannot believe what an amazingly rich
and vibrant world they have created
and something that technically works so well.
And I'm just astonished by it.
- Yeah, I love that perspective
and I totally agree with you.
- It should also maybe be added that some of the things
that people complain about missing
are actually intentional, stuff intentionally left out.
So for example, a lot of people come on Mastodon
for the first time and the first thing that they miss is
where's the quote feature?
Why can I not quote this toot and set my opinion on top?
And that is intentional because the idea is that
on Mastodon, you should not talk about people.
You should talk with people.
So comment on that thing, interact with that thing.
You are free to just boost, so retweet,
your response so that it gets more widespread visibility,
maybe, but the first thing that you should do
is interact with the person who wrote something
that you want to discuss or want to add to.
instead of just trying to be like, hey, look what I found.
And all of this is now about me.
And the other thing is that people miss a search.
And I can totally understand that
because the only thing that you can currently search
is your local instance and maybe the federated timeline.
And that is also intentional because the idea is that,
yeah, so if you are on Twitter
and you are a very, very bad person
who wants to target a marginalized group,
then you enter some keywords
and you add those keywords as a safe search.
And then you constantly and constantly and constantly
just abuse the people who pop up with this keyword search.
And you cannot do that on Astrodon.
It simply is not possible technically.
And that's a decision.
- And I think it goes a long way to humanizing
and re-humanizing the tools that we work with
because it does give you this sense of,
Hey, I'm not going to be as targeted, for something I say or do that is just
part of my normal open source everyday world.
But like Simon said, I mean, I think.
You know, you've got these brilliant people coming together out in the
open to manage a service that, you know, I have much more questions, whether
not Twitter's going to fall over in the next month, the night June has to come.
I mean, just, you know, and, and I guess some of that's the experience that I
had with, you know, the federated version of mybinder.org and how we went from a
small group of people, you know, hosting notebooks for free for the academic
world and, you know, federated it out to other institutions to handle the
capacity and it's worked out really well over the last few years. So, you know, I give a lot of credit to the folks that have been working hard for the last several years on Mastodon.
I feel like we should talk about the business model, because Twitter, it's ads and selling your data and all sorts of stuff. The thing I love about, one of the things I love about Mastodon, the business model is just so open.
It's like there are volunteers who are doing this stuff.
They are volunteering.
They're spending their time moderating.
They're spending their money running instances.
You should support them.
Obviously you should, right?
There's no advertisement.
You can't use the thing for free and expect it to be paid for because
then there are ads, there are no ads or anything.
And I feel like Elon has set us the price, right?
The price is $8 a month, right?
That's what he wants us to pay on Twitter.
If everyone who's using Amazon and can afford to do so puts an $8 a month
towards their local, the server they're running on, it's going to be fine.
it's just going to work.
And we should all be committed to doing that, I think.
I absolutely do.
Let's talk about the instances, because I
think the cultural aspect of the norms,
especially that Carol was talking about,
are really important here.
And that also has a bit to do with the deployment.
Now let me track down.
There's an interesting place to begin finding an instance.
There's-- how many instances are there now?
4,000?
Something like that.
These are basically hosts for little communities,
little islands of Mastodon.
And there's this place called instances.social,
and you can say, well, what language do I wanna speak?
Do I care how many people are there?
'Cause you might want a small community or a large.
And you can say about what you,
the type of content that you would like to be blocked.
And then you could go search.
I'm interested in open source.
And what do you get?
You get stuff, you get all these different,
you know, Fosseton, for example, NixNet and so on.
The one that I think is pretty interesting
that I just recently learned about is Hackerdom.
You know, Carol, I know that you're on there, right?
- Uh-huh.
- Absolutely.
And they have a great, you know,
Nova, very seasoned open source contributor
who's done tons of work in Kubernetes and other communities,
and they have a really open model.
that's on GitHub, you know exactly what they're doing
in terms of the community standards.
And I started seeing friends of mine go there
and I was like, hey, they're doing it right from the start.
And I think that's something that to me is really important.
Like, A, I know this is gonna be about as safe
and open space that one can get.
It's easy to know how to contribute back to them
financially, in code, whatever.
And you know what the rules are and the direction is.
And I couldn't be more happy to be part of that.
- My favorite thing about this server,
you can see it on Twitch.
So Chris Nova streams on Twitch
and in the background is a rack lit up
and that rack is Hackyderm.
Hackyderm sits in her basement.
It's got a fiber optic cable coming into it.
It's a real thing, right? It's really exciting.
You can touch it.
Yeah.
It's not in the cloud, it's on the ground, actually.
It's in the basement.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah, so when you come to these different instances,
you can use instance.social to search.
And then they each have, you know, this one,
there's 6,000 active participants, however many users,
and it has a mission statement.
And that matters because they can control
who can be on that instance.
If you don't like it, go somewhere else.
When you have conversations, there's a way to say,
I wanna see the conversations,
instead of happening on all of Twitter or all of Mastodon,
I just want it on the people who belong on this small group,
no matter how many others there are.
I think it's really neat.
- It's tricky though.
Like this is, I think the biggest barrier
to joining Mastodon is that on the moment you join,
you have to make that decision.
And it's a really difficult decision to make
if you don't know your way around.
And it's like, I couldn't make the decision.
I ended up, I'm running my own instance.
I'm paying companies to do it for me
because I didn't want to have to choose.
I'm like, no, I'm interested in everything.
I don't want to align myself with the free software people
or these people.
I'm paralyzed by indecision.
So yeah, so I ended up running my own server.
It's cool that you can do that, but it is,
I feel like when you're trying to encourage people
to master Don, it is, this is the thing people need
the most help with is this particular process.
Because you're going in with no idea what makes a good server,
but you have to pick before you can even start engaging, really.
Yeah, it is tricky.
Harley out in the audience says,
"Could someone invite me to the one where the Python peeps are on?"
Yeah, I'm not so sure you can get an invite,
but, you know, Fosstodon, the free and open-source software,
HackerDome, you know--
I think there's five of us in this call,
and we have five different servers, right?
-Or almost. -Perfect.
Yes, I think, yeah, that's right, we are, yeah.
I think we're all on five different servers.
But we still talk and organize this through Mastodon, right?
Exactly.
This is a huge proof that the system works.
In fact, I started on Fosstodon because it was, I don't know,
more aligned with my interests at the time.
But Fosstodon has a moderation policy at the moment
that they don't allow non-English posts.
And sometimes I just want to toot in Spanish.
And so, yeah, I went on and created my own instance.
And now I'm spreading my content everywhere
in any language I like.
But I think the moderation challenge is quite interesting.
And I'm looking forward to someone to set up
like a graph of people in a sense like,
okay, you can invite someone,
but if that someone does something nasty,
then I'm going to ban them
and I'm going to ban you as a result.
- Gotcha.
- Someone to keep track of the social structure
of the network so that there's mutual accountability.
I think that would be super interesting to watch.
- Yeah, and these instances can ban other instances.
Like for example, I haven't looked at Hackadam,
but I know that Fosstodon is banning certain other instances
for various reasons, because it's spam,
or there's people who've done things that are unwelcome.
So it's not just one person is banned,
but like this whole community,
we just don't want them to be part of it.
Yeah, I'm not sure if that says,
yeah, it doesn't say there.
- I think Hackathorm has it in their GitHub.
- Actually you can navigate, if you click about.
- It should also show on the about page.
Yeah, exactly.
Click on the about page and then on more
and there it should be.
- I'll find it.
- Wherever it was.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Here you go.
- Scroll down to the bottom and it's gone.
- Ah, yeah.
- A bit lower.
- Further, further, further.
- Right there.
(laughs)
- Right at the very end.
- There we go.
- Limited suspended servers.
- Yep.
- Yeah, this one,
found racism and questionable other badness,
violation, violation, racism.
One of these I saw just said Nazis,
like, okay, that's clear, obviously.
We don't want that in the limited.
Yeah, so I think this is really important, right?
Like this goes to choosing your home base, right?
Because it's more than just what hosts your content,
it hosts your norms and morals and stuff.
Yeah, I think it should be made easier for people to migrate to other instances because
at the moment, for some technical reason, I don't know, you cannot migrate your posts.
You can only migrate your followers and stuff.
So if people can just move around freely, it's not that much of a big issue.
Yeah, I agree.
I agree.
All right.
Let's see.
There's some nice articles about choosing your own instance.
There's that app.
I guess one of the things why we're kind of on the culture
side of things is, Simon, you talked
about the value of the algorithm.
And I agree with that.
Acknowledging the filter bubble aspects of algorithms,
there is some real value.
So when you post messages here, because there's no algorithm,
it becomes like tailing a log of a super busy website.
just stuff screaming by and it becomes really hard to
to sort of just interact in the general stream
of information.
So Massanon has ways to say like you reply
but it's not really a public reply.
It's sort of a semi, people can discover it
but it's not announced.
And I asked people, what is the right way in which to,
what's the default way to reply to somebody?
And most people said, I'll just hit reply in public.
And to me, that seems like it's gonna
kind of overwhelm the system of every conversation.
- I believe replies in public will only get delivered
to people who follow both you
and the person you're replying to.
So I think that's how that works.
- Okay.
Am I wrong about that?
- I think public goes into the public outbox
of the local timeline, local server as well.
And so it also ends up on federated servers.
So the general recommendation is, for example,
for bot accounts to always set them to unlisted
so they don't spam timelines,
but can still be found naturally
through hashtag searches, for example,
which by the way, I think, contrary to full text searches.
Unlisted is the thing where it still pops up
in your followers timelines automatically,
but it doesn't pop up in the public timeline
on your instance, on the local one.
So maybe we should say we have a local one,
which is just the stuff on your server.
And then we have the federated timeline,
which is the stuff on your server,
plus anything and anyone that interacts
with people on your server.
So that is a bit complicated.
And I have not fully understood yet
what exactly goes in there, but-
- Right.
- That is the two things.
- I thought federated was anyone who's followed
by at least one of the users on your server,
but it's not because on my personal server,
it's just me, stuff shows up in federated
that's not from people I'm following.
There's no one else in my service.
So yeah, it's complicated.
- I think if I boost something,
I think if you follow me and I boost someone else
or like a post from someone else,
that is maybe a better example.
If I like a post from someone else.
- If you interact with it in any way.
- I interact with that and that also means
it will show up on your server
even though you are only following me.
- Okay.
- I think it was like that.
- I read into the activity spec, but yeah.
- The fact that we need to analyze it so much
and we still don't fully understand it,
for me, it's a UX problem.
I don't know if it can be solved by the technology,
but no doubt it's a problem.
And no amount of #fairytips is going to fix a UX problem.
Like there has to be someone who would know it, I think.
- Yeah, I went and I switched my defaults.
Yeah, I set my default visibility to unlisted
and I have to opt in the public on my world.
So speaking of like changes that might be coming
in the UX thing, so I did want to point out
that Mastodon itself is open source.
Obviously, Juan and Simon running your own,
you're probably deeply familiar with this code over here.
And they just announced that they're about
to release version 4.0.
I don't know what great features that's going to include,
But hopefully some of these things get a little bit ironed out as well.
I don't know if you all have any visibility into that.
So it's a very active open source project.
You can see it's got 2,600 issues.
There's a lot of-- and it's been well-made.
It's got people working on it full time, or at least one person working on it full time.
Which-- and again, the amount of impact they're having from a very tiny team of contributors
is truly extraordinary.
But it does seem to be something where you can get very actively involved with it.
There are also lots of interesting alternative versions out there.
Andrew Godwin has spent the last two days hacking together his own custom mastodon on
Django thing, which I'm really excited about because his signature feature is going to
be that it will be easier to point custom domains to it.
Right now, you have to run a separate mastodon for every custom domain that you want, which
is very inefficient.
where you'll be able to run one of Andrew's things and have all of your friends with their
own custom domains can still share the same instance. But yeah, I also get a feeling from
looking at it that there are inefficiencies in the way that it works, which are basically because it
hasn't needed to scale that much before now. The way it distributes posts using sidebar queues
and Ruby requests worked fine two weeks ago. Suddenly that's beginning to strain at the edges,
but it means that if you want to help make this stuff more efficient,
there is a--
this is a great time to be getting involved in helping
fix some of the UI things and improve some performance,
and there's just so much work to be done
and so many available people to help do that.
So I'm expecting some very healthy activity
around all of these different open source projects
to be coming up pretty soon.
- And I think because we're-- - Yeah, I wouldn't be--
- Go ahead. - Oh, go ahead.
I was going to say, because we're pulling in a bunch of different groups of people,
I think the likelihood of getting more folks that are really into user experience and UI
and how to run asynchronously things more efficiently, you wind up with these expertise
coming into the ecosystem, which I think is going to continue to energize it.
At least that's my hope.
Well, we've got really good bones to build on.
Like all of the decisions made so far are very,
like it's a very high quality product.
It's a very high quality code base.
It's not like it needs fixing.
- No, not at all.
- It will definitely benefit from more people able
to help it take on these newer challenges
that are emerging just as the entire world
leaps on it in one go.
- Yeah, and I think it's sort of that
you plug in user experience kind of side of things
where you're gonna see the real growth.
Maybe, I don't know.
And about the new things in Maslow 4.0,
actually, if you go to the release notes of 4.0 release
candidate one, you can see that there's
lots of new features that got added thanks to some funds
from the European Commission.
And then they're working on things
like being able to translate posts
or having more granular control on roles inside servers
so that bigger instances can have any moderation roles
that they want.
I don't know, there's lots of exciting stuff coming
for Massdown in particular, and I'm sure it's going to
affect the whole Fediverse as a whole.
Yeah, I can see a lot of new technologies
being brought in here. This little scheduled background worker thing,
we should maybe choose a different technology to make it go fast.
Okay, let's see.
So Simon, you mentioned Andrew Godwin's, is it Taq-Tah-Hay?
- Taq-Tah-Hay, I think, yeah.
- Yeah, so that's an interesting--
- In which language is this word written?
Is there any explanation of that?
I'm curious.
- I don't, I was guessing Hawaii, but I don't know.
- It seems like that's the language as well.
I don't know either, actually, yeah.
- I don't know.
I mean, to me, the bird evokes fanning out their wings
in the distributed nature where he talks about--
- It's a New Zealand bird.
It's the sound wave. - New Zealand, yeah.
- New Zealand flightless hen.
That's a cute name. - A flightless hen.
- Yes, I love New Zealand flightless birds generally.
I might have to call mine Kakapo
if I do a massive implementation
just to keep Andrew's naming convention going.
But yeah, Andrew's developing this entirely in the open.
I'm finding this useful because I have plans
to build my own code around this,
I'm gonna steal his implementation of like the HTTP signing
and all of the difficult bits that he's figuring out.
This looks very exciting.
- Sure does.
- Signing is actually fairly simple.
The problem is how do you address anything
that you're supposed to send out?
Yeah, I have a little pet project brewing now
since the start of this year,
or rather like the end of the last one,
and that is activity-focused.
So I was also working on that stuff a bit
in the background and it is a lot to take in,
but it is fairly clever all in all.
- Absolutely.
- If you want to see how the stuff works,
so I'm running my own instance.
I'm playing mastodon host to do all of the work,
which is great.
I don't have to figure out the docker containers
and so forth.
But when you have an instance of your own,
you get access to the admin panel.
And one of the things in there is the sidekick queue view,
which shows you what's been queued up to go out.
And it turns out anytime you send a toot,
it needs to be sent to every server
that at least one of your followers is on.
I've got like 5,000 followers
who are spread across 580 servers.
So if I toot, that's 580 deliveries that need to be made,
which is on the one hand,
that sounds like a pretty giant
and intimidating amount of traffic.
And if you watch, if I get into a conversation
and send a bunch of toots, my queue can grow
to like 10,000 items and take like 20 or 30 minutes
for it to fully drain through.
But I started thinking about it and thinking,
you know what, if I load a web page
and open up the network pane, it makes 100 requests, right?
Pages are pretty inefficient these days.
So actually sending 600 requests because I tooted,
by modern web standards,
that's not really an enormous amount of traffic.
And this is why I feel like
there's some low-hanging fruit here,
just in terms of more efficient sending of these requests.
This is where Andrew's built using Python async I/O
for his implementation, which feels to me
like the right kind of technology to apply here.
But yeah, it's really interesting
just having those little insights
into what's going on under the hood.
And there is, this is not,
it's a lot more complicated than running a blog.
If you're hosting your own blog,
there aren't that many moving parts.
If you're hosting a master on server
or an activity server,
there is a lot more activity
It has to go on under the hood for all of us to work.
- On GitHub, right here on GitHub,
it's a 66 requests to pull up a readme.
- Yeah, there we go.
- So something like that, right?
Let's go back here, not there yet.
Oh, so one thing I wanna talk about,
we go over to the various profiles
and I'll pull up my register sec.
One of the things I guess, one of the things that's a little bit annoying here is if you search for yourself and you've done anything somewhat notable on social media, you're going to find multiple ones of you.
Look, there's three of me. And if I look for like JetBrains, there are many. None of these are real accounts. They're all, all fake, right? And yet there's many.
There's many Twitter barrels, actually.
Yeah, exactly.
Yep.
I searched for Carol. Oh, there's only one Carol. Amazing. So good.
Yeah, thanks. Thanks. You've added me now.
No, I mean, look, there's four Simons. And, and so the reason I bring this up is
you have to do a little bit of work not to pay $8 to get a red blue verified sticker.
but to establish your presence and show that you're a real person.
So for example, on my profile, I have one well-known domain that's verified,
and then it links over to like talkpython or pythonbytes.
And those are both, if I were to go to them, they also have verified.
Verified, not paying money, but go through the protocol or the conventions.
So who wants to talk about that?
like talk about this sort of creating a verified account
here.
- So I think it's a very smart technique.
It's very similar to how you verify a site on Google search.
For example, you say, okay,
so let's configure some DNS with a special record
that only you know.
And then when you do that,
then Google knows that this site belongs to you, right?
And the way you go and do that here is that you go to these
URLs that you control,
and then you add a backlink pointing to your mastodon profile
and somehow the system does this update for you
and those links appear as verified.
And I think it's really interesting first
that you don't need any technical special thing,
you don't need any blockchain or anything like that
for it to work.
Like as long as you trust that talkpython.fm
is by Michael Kennedy,
then you can assume that the Fostalon account is
going to be properly verified.
And at the same time, it sets a very good precedent
for news outlets, for example, to create their own instance
and say, look, we're going to verify our instance.
And you know that anybody with an account here
is either a journalist of ours, or it's us, our official voice,
and so forth.
So it provides a way of doing this distributed,
inexpensive verification.
And I think that's really, really interesting.
- And there's no central authority that says,
we hereby confer upon you this check mark, right?
It's, here's the evidence I present that I am me
or that Talk Python is Talk Python or whatever.
And that gets verified and people can decide
how much they trust that.
- I just love this 'cause it's such an elegant solution.
And it's so funny with Twitter verification
being this complete trash fire for the past two weeks.
And well, the question is--
- It was bad and now it's really bad.
- Yeah. - Right.
And then on Mastodon, it's like,
oh no, you put a rel=me link on your site back
and you highlight the domain and that's done.
I think it's beautiful.
I think it's a really clever.
There are some interesting tricks with it.
So like I've got a GitHub account.
GitHub will use rel=me only on the about URL field
on your profile.
So, and you only get one of those.
So you can link back to your account from GitHub
and get a verified thing.
But then I wanted that to point to my regular site.
So I edited it back again,
which actually breaks because my server knows
that I'm verified 'cause it happened to check
while that link was there.
But then other people's servers don't show that verification
because they all check independently as they should, right?
Nobody should trust my server about the verified links.
They all need to do their own little verification step.
It's also, when you look at the activity queues,
There's a whole lot of activity that's just checking
these verified links from each server
to make sure that they're there.
But I do think it's a beautifully simple
and elegant way of solving this problem.
- And then of course you can add like a blue check mark
next to your name, just a little bit dope, right?
Nobody prevents you from doing that.
I actually did that.
I'm really proud of it.
- There's a ton of people who have colon verified.
I don't know if I can pull that up.
Yeah, they're like this.
Oh yeah.
(laughing)
- That's server specific though.
- Oh, is it okay?
- Emojis, yeah, yeah.
I think that doesn't work on mine,
or at least I haven't seen it on accounts on mine yet.
But it's okay.
- AxelWax out there says you can put it
in the location field in GitHub as well.
Do you have an example of that?
That'd be great to see what you're talking about.
Let me pull up.
- Oh, I don't think you can put URLs in the YouTube chat.
they will be featured out.
- Yes, you're right.
Of course they will be.
- And probably the geographical location field?
- Maybe on your user's location field in GitHub, maybe.
- Yeah, maybe.
All right, well.
- I still hope they will add just some weight
at arbitrary stuff.
Sorry.
I still just hope that GitHub will see the light.
- Yeah, go Gina, go.
Sorry.
I just hope that GitHub will see the light
about the importance of Mesterdon verification
and allow us to either add a Mesterdon account there
or just, you know, like more than one homepage link
with an, well, equals me thing there.
And I've poked them a bit, but so far, sadly nothing,
but I'll keep poking them.
- Yeah, Axel Wax points out that, yeah.
- There's an open issue of that
or a conversation somewhere, right?
I saw that the other day, but I didn't collect the URL, so.
Yeah, I pinged them on the internal Slack.
And X-Wack said, yes, the location field.
- Yeah.
And so there's a couple other things I want.
Yeah, interesting.
There's a couple other things I want to follow up on here
before we go.
And Dina, this one might be particularly relevant to you.
Here, let me put this in.
So apparently the German government
has set up its own Mastodon server.
You probably know more than I do about this.
- Yeah, they created this social.bund.de
and yeah, more and more ministries and official places.
So what you see there in the screenshots is the,
or was the, so the BME Bund,
which is our Ministry of Inner Security and such,
and then yeah, data protection, freedom of information.
my own county, as I just said, also, or rather my own state actually also is apparently now there,
the Hessische Landtag, so hey, cool. And yeah, they started doing that around the time that Elon
bought the thing. So two weeks ago or three weeks, I don't know, maybe the server is older,
but the influx of a ton of official accounts started. Yeah, something around that time. And
And what I also recently learned is,
so we have this international emergency broadcast thing
that is not SMS based, but rather an app.
And I don't know how official that is,
but there is also a server dedicated to just subscribing
to the so-called NINA notifications for your location
so that you get a Mastodon notification
when there is some kind of emergency,
like really bad weather, or I don't know,
Some some bomb that was found from world war ii again, which also happens all the time here
and that is kind of neat that they integrated that so I I immediately followed my local
A little terrifying though because that means makes matters in a safety critical system
You know when my queue's backed up for an hour suddenly i'm getting nervous that these messages really do need to be delivered in real time
As you're looking at the rubble warning earthquake coming oh wait, yeah, but no this is this is a really really cool
I absolutely love this idea.
And I think other governments should also
consider this seriously.
Now, two more areas.
We're getting short on time.
I want to make sure we focus on.
First, a little bit of programmability.
Yeah, it's this.
So there's a thing called Toot and a Python library
which you can program called Toot.
So Toot, the Toot CLI--
Is that what it's called?
This is yep.
This is it and it's a full on.
It's well, I know it's like.
Mass it on in the terminal,
right, which is pretty interesting.
But it has a Python library.
Has anyone done anything with this?
Not yet.
Now I've been playing with the API
directly 'cause massed on your local.
Your server has an HTTP API.
It's super, super, it's a very clean, very well designed API.
One of the things it can do is it's got a streaming API.
So you can hold open a connection to a URL
and every time a new toot comes in,
it gets fed to your script.
So I've got a, I wrote, I have a little script to the gist,
which I've just pinged you in the private chat,
which listens to my server
and writes to a SQLite database
every time something happens.
And then I can analyze it in data set
and run SQL queries and so forth.
This is going to be the basis.
Here we go.
So this right here.
And if you look at the code,
and you scroll down,
so you went Python stream.py and give it a database.
That's the schema.
And this is the whole thing.
It's what, like 30 lines of code,
'cause all you have to do is stream against
that Feddy.sign_listens on that API
that you want to stream in public.
And then every time a new line comes in,
treat it as JSON and write it to the database.
This is, so when I talk about building my own algorithm,
this is how I'm gonna do it.
I'm gonna be sucking all of that data down
into a little SQLite database
and then running SQL queries against it.
I was really impressed at how easy this was.
Note that I don't even need an API key for this one.
This is just a publicly available endpoint that I can hit.
But it has authenticated APIs for following and tooting
and all of that kind of stuff.
So yeah, this is very, very hackable.
And one thing I find exciting is,
so I've built Twitter bots in the past,
and it always feels like you're in a ask permission
or ask forgiveness situation.
Now you launch a bot,
and you're always crossing your fingers
that somebody, the powers that be might not go,
"No, that's a bad bot," and turn it off for you.
Mastodon, there are no,
like you can run a bot on your own instance.
If you misbehave, the worst that can happen
to your instance will be defederated, which is bad.
So don't do bad bots.
But you can build a bot that does absolutely anything.
And especially if it only interacts
with people who follow it, what's the harm, right?
Nobody's gonna get upset with your bot for spamming people
if people had to follow it to get alerts from it.
So I think we're gonna see so much innovation
around bots on this platform,
because it's so easy and liberating
to start writing these automations.
- I absolutely agree.
I checked out, I keep losing track of where I am.
I checked out to, if you look at the PyPI listing,
it just gives you a description,
and if you click on, take me to the documentation,
it takes you to the documentation for the UI thing.
It's really not clear how to use it,
but I ended up just doing basically what you said.
And I used to create the OAuth registration
and the access keys and all that.
And then I just wrote some straight Python code
using HTTPS against the API.
And now on my stream deck, I have a little button.
I can press right here.
Every time I wanna announce that a live stream is starting,
click that thing and off it goes.
And so programming, like you said, is pretty hackable.
- This is just so cool.
- Yeah, yeah, this is fun.
This is real fun.
- I'm looking forward to the dataset plugin for this
because I think that would be pretty darn cool.
And congrats on the five-year anniversary, too.
- Thank you, yeah, it was the project's birthday yesterday.
Yeah, no, I want to do a plugin.
I'm waiting for Andrew in Tag Tech,
I pronounced it correctly earlier and I'd forgotten.
I'm waiting for Andrew to solve all of the problems
and I'm just gonna copy and paste code out of that
and build a plugin.
and build a plugin based on the things
that he's already figured out.
But yeah, I want Dataset to be able to both ingest
from ActivityPub and publish to ActivityPub,
all via plugins.
It feels like it would be a really natural fit, definitely.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
So I guess maybe let's close this out with,
not that yet,
though I wanna close this out talking about funding
and how, I mean, you mentioned the business model.
I think it's so transparent. It's like there are no ads. This is volunteer run. It's volunteer money
If you can afford you think you should pay and I think we should all be paying eight dollars a month for this on
Principle if we can afford to do so, I think that's the right the right amount to commit
Yeah, they let me see. I pulled it up here perhaps where I pull this up
It's a little hard to pull it up on social.co op. For example that works as an open collective
project. So to become part of it, you have to pay and it becomes a collective effort that way. And
I think that's really interesting too. >> That is very interesting. Yeah, I know if I go back here
and I click on announcements, I'll get there. There we go. So I only read this about the
Fauceton. So look at your instance of interest, I suppose. And if you look at this, they have a
funding page over here, and they actually have open numbers
about how much it costs to run, how much scaling
they've had to do recently.
So it said two weeks ago, we paid $100 a month,
and now we pay $1,000 a month.
And here's how much money, so how much runway
we have at this current rate.
They also talked about how many users
they had in here somewhere.
it went from something like 2000 to 40,000 in a week,
which is pretty interesting.
But if you think about this,
like, so they need $1,000 to run this server
and this infrastructure,
and they actually break it down by piece of infrastructure,
like CDN versus servers.
And you take 40,000 and 1,000 divided by 40,000,
you know, that turns out to be like 2 cents a month
to run this.
I mean, we can have a world that's not, you know, infested with ad companies and algorithms
that are trying to manipulate us to buy things or to vote this way or that way, or to be
angry about this cause or that cause.
For 2.5 cents a month, that's insane, right?
We should absolutely be doing this.
That's just a cliche, right?
The old cliche is if something is free, if the product is free, then you are the product,
you're the thing being sold.
is our chance to show that we understand that lesson, right? This is right now we want to use
this software, we have the option to pay for it, we should pay for it. And like I said not everyone
needs to pay for it. I like the eight dollars thing because if you can afford it then throw in
that eight dollars. People who can't afford it we want them around anyway so let's cover the costs
for them. But yeah I'm not worried about the financial sustainability of this of this thing.
If even a small minority of us do the right thing and help pay for it I think it's going to be fine.
And I think it makes good sense for the ones that want to be sustained long term
to be very transparent with the finances. I know we did that with mybinder.org and that really
helped with either grant money or bringing on other federated instances and I think it gives
people like, hey, you know, people are putting in their time, as well as the financial resources,
you know, I for one, I'm happy to pay for that I would pay more than $8 a month,
just so that, you know, there's no ads. In fact, I do on certain services. So, you know,
but, you know, I think the other thing to maybe keep in mind is, given how quickly it's growing,
and the fact that there are maintainers of Mastodon itself,
be kind to those maintainers as you want new features and things,
because having been on the other side of,
"Oh, you don't have this, this is a stupid way of doing that,"
you know what, they made good decisions,
those were the decisions they made,
and support them as they learn how to scale even more.
So don't forget that there's people behind the efforts.
Yeah.
I want to also point out that just because they have more money than it costs to run
at the current moment, Mike and I don't remember the other person who runs Fosstodon and this
goes for all the servers, these people are taking a lot of their time.
They said there's been so much of an influx, a 20x growth in users and servers and so on.
It's been almost like a second full time job.
So I think we should consider, how do we make it something
that is not a tremendous unwanted burden
for these people who put together these places for us?
So, all right, like it shouldn't just go,
well, they need a thousand, they got a thousand,
they're good.
It should be something more than that to help them grow.
- We are technically minded people.
We can volunteer our time,
people like volunteering to help with moderation,
volunteering to help with systems administration.
These are all things that we should be ready to do as well.
- Yep, absolutely.
Yeah, at the same time, I think the technology will only improve.
Andrew Godwin just created Django asynchronous Fediverse server in, what, seven days.
That's completely astonishing.
But the more the technology evolves, and I think it's happening now, that the human problems are going to become more and more apparent.
And probably some instances will want to have full-time moderators or even part-time, and they will want, I don't know,
like marketing people, graphical design, communications.
They will want to coordinate with other instances.
They will want to fund progress in the activity pub protocols
that it's more robust and more feature complete, whatever.
So like the more money we pour into the ecosystem,
I think it's going to be good
if there's a good accountability
of how this money is spent and so forth.
And if it's as cheap as two cents a person,
let's just go for it.
- Yeah, yeah.
Why not, right?
They have Patreon and also not just your instance,
but Mastodon, the bigger org also has a funding option.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, I for one think this is a really lovely place to be.
I'm excited by what I found.
And I saw a lot of comments in the live stream
here that people found the signal to noise ratio much
higher over in Mastodon.
People felt very welcome there.
The kindness was really apparent there.
So I didn't end up here for the reason that I expected.
As Juan pointed out, some narcissistic guy
went and banged around on Twitter for a while,
tried to break it.
We'll see how that turns out.
But I'm really glad that I ended up here.
So yeah, it's very cool.
All right.
Well, maybe we'll go top to bottom.
Yeah.
Final thoughts on this.
Carol?
Yeah.
I mean, I think it's a great alternative to have in our ability to communicate.
I hope somebody who knows it well writes a good onboarding experience for those of us
that are relatively new.
It wasn't hard to get started, but there were a lot of decisions that maybe aren't quite
apparent when you first approach.
Gina?
Yeah, I think we will probably see some changes maybe here and there as more and more people
go in there and need to first get, yeah, get get into the into the way that we talk there
into the way this whole how this all works, how the community rules are and all that. So I think
there might be some bad things that will happen sooner or later, the bigger this is, this stuff
gets. But I think the community as a whole so far has shown that in theory, it should be
ready for that and should be able to solve that. And it Yeah, big, big parts of how to solve these
situations are, issues are already built into the very protocol, into the very concept. So
I have high hopes that this is here to stay. And it, yeah, it feels like Twitter back in 29,
or even, I don't know if anyone else still remembers this, but before there was Twitter,
I was on Identica, which also was something like, like Mastodon basically also federated,
if I remember correctly. I'm not 100% sure. And so, yeah, it feels a bit like the internet used
to feel, and I really enjoy that as an old-timer, basically. Indeed. Juan?
Yeah, so, same as you, Michael. I'm so glad that the Fediverse and the Mastodon community so far
is so friendly in general. At the same time, I'm looking forward to having more conversations about
What's next? What are the current challenges? What are the bottlenecks that are perhaps limiting
adoption somehow? Are we prepared for the next influx of users? I don't know, if Twitter collapses
effectively next year, is the Fediverse ready to take that amount of users in? Do we want
that sort of thing? I think there's lots of questions to be asked, but at the same time,
It feels so exciting that we're in a position to do that from a community perspective,
with a distributed responsibility way of doing things.
And, well, I'm not deleting my Twitter account just yet.
I will keep it around just in case.
But definitely, I'm Mastodon and Fediverse first now.
I really want to have all my favorite people, all my favorite projects,
Tooting from the Fediverse whatever instance they they land on and and yeah, very excited about the future
Yeah, I completely agree with you. Thanks Simon
I've got a call to action people toot about nice things
Something I've been doing every day
I try and put up a message about one of my projects which I do hash
Projects on and I'm encouraging other people to do exactly the same thing
It's like celebrate things that we've built I try and if you click on media
I try and post a wildlife photo every day as well tagged with wildlife photography
Because who doesn't want to see a photograph of a pelican in there in their feet?
Does that your dog have a mastodon feed not yet? No, I haven't moved
She hasn't moved everything to it yet, but she should do and we're not upset. Yeah, she's still just sticking with that group
She's she's not a she's a bit old-fashioned on that front. Yeah, but yeah
I'm post post nice things reply to people get involved like the one of the things that we're all enjoying about
Mastodon is that people are nice to each other and talk about interesting things.
So get on there and talk about interesting things and be nice to people. That's the best thing that
we can be doing right now. Yeah. And I just want to say thank you, Simon, for the project hashtag,
because I have had a blast reading through that and also participating in that. Excellent.
Fantastic. It's really fun. Yeah. Yeah, totally. Yeah. And I'll be sure to link to everybody's
Mastodon profile so you can follow all the guests,
as I always do.
But I think that's especially relevant now
that everyone's coming over.
It's a little bit different to find folks and connect.
But my experience is Mastodon is very active, very
full of Python people who are friendly and excited to be
there.
And so it's a great place.
It's not just a couple of people who are there.
It's a great community, and folks should check it out.
All right. Carol, Gina, Juan, Simon, it's been great to have you all here. Thank you
so much for being part of this.
>> Thanks for having us.
>> Thanks to you.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> You bet. Bye, all.
>> Bye.